Unknown

Patient Information Leaflet

+------------------+---+
| ACEPRILÂ² TABLETS |   |
|                  |   |
| Captopril        |   |
+------------------+---+

Your doctor has prescribed Acepril Tablets for you. Please read this
leaflet before you take your medicine. It gives a summary of information
about your medicine. If you want to know more, or are not sure about
anything, ask your doctor or pharmacist.

REMEMBER:

This medicine is for you. Only a doctor can prescribe it for you. Never
give this medicine to anyone else. It may harm them even if they have
the same symptoms as you.

WHAT IS IN ACEPRIL TABLETS?

The active ingredient in Acepril tablets is captopril. The tablets come
in three different strengths: 12.5mg, 25mg and 50mg

The other ingredients are lactose, maize starch, microcrystalline
cellulose and stearic acid.

WHO SUPPLIES ACEPRIL TABLETS?

United Kingdom

PRODUCT LICENCE HOLDER

E.R. Squibb & Sons Ltd.,

Hounslow,

Middlesex TW3 3JA

PL NUMBERS FOR ACEPRIL

12.5mg PL 0034/0298

25mg PL 0034/0299

50mg PL 0034/0300

MANUFACTURER:

Bristol-Myers Squibb Pharmaceuticals Limited,

Reeds Lane,

Moreton,

Wirral,

Merseyside L46 1QW

Q: WHAT IS THIS MEDICINE FOR?

A: Captopril belongs to a group of medicines called Angiotensin
Converting Enzyme (ACE) Inhibitors. Acepril is used to lower high blood
pressure or to help the heart pump blood around the body. It is also
used to treat people after a heart attack. In addition, Acepril can be
used for the treatment of kidney disease in patients with diabetes.

BEFORE TAKING YOUR MEDICINE:

Q: Should you be taking this medicine?

A: Do NOT take these tablets if you answer YES to any of the following
questions. Go back to your doctor for advice as soon as possible.

1. Are you pregnant?

2. Are you planning to become pregnant?

3. Are you breast feeding?

4. Have you suffered from heart or kidney disease that your doctor does
not know about?

5. Have you had an allergic reaction to similar tablets or any of the
ingredients in Acepril Tablets?

Q: Can you take other medicines?

A: Do not take other medicines while you are taking Acepril Tablets,
unless you have told your doctor or pharmacist and asked their advice.
These include medicines from pharmacies for colds, coughs, hay fever or
sinus problems as these may increase your blood pressure. If you are
also taking anti-inflammatory painkillers (e.g. indomethacin,
ibuprofen), lithium, allopurinol (treatment for gout), procainamide (a
treatment for irregular heartbeats), immunosuppressants (e.g.
azathioprine and cyclophosphamide), potassium supplements or salt
substitutes containing potassium, or any other treatment for high blood
pressure, remind your doctor before taking Acepril

continued

Q: Is it all right to drink alcohol?

A: Moderate amounts of alcohol will not affect Acepril. However, you
should check with your doctor whether drinking is advisable for you.

Q: Is it all right to drive?

A: Acepril tablets do not usually affect your ability to drive. However,
if you feel light-headed or dizzy, do not drive and check with your
doctor.

Q: Who should you tell that you are taking Acepril?

A: Doctor - before having surgery or emergency treatment, or if he
prescribes any new treatment. Dentist - before having dental surgery.
Pharmacist - before buying any medicines.

Q: How much exercise should you take?

A: As you start feeling better you may try to do too much and feel
faint, especially in hot weather. Make sure you discuss with your doctor
a safe amount of exercise for you.

TAKING YOUR MEDICINE:

Q: How should you take Acepril Tablets?

A: The usual starting dose for the treatment of high blood pressure is
12.5mg twice a day. This dose may be increased by your doctor up to 50mg
twice a day.

When Acepril is used to help the heart pump blood around the body, the
usual starting dose is 6.25mg or 12.5mg. This may be increased by your
doctor to a maximum of 150mg daily in divided doses.

The usual starting dose for use after a heart attack is 6.25mg which may
then be increased by your doctor to a maximum of 150mg daily in divided
doses.

The usual dose for the treatment of diabetic patients with kidney
disease is 75mg to 100mg daily in divided doses.

Doctors sometimes prescribe different doses to these: if this applies to
you, you should discuss it with your doctor if you have not already done
so.

Q. Can you take the tablets before or after meals?

A. It does not matter.

Q. How long should you take them for?

A. Continue with Acepril tablets until your doctor tells you otherwise.
Keep your doctor's appointments even if you feel well.

Q. What it you take too many tablets or a child swallows some?

A. Go to your nearest hospital Casualty Department or tell your doctor
immediately. If you are going to the hospital, take the empty container
and any remaining tablets with you. If the person has fainted, lay them
down and raise their feet higher than their head.

Q. What it you miss or forget to take a dose?

A. If you miss a dose do not worry. Just carry on taking your normal
dose when the next one is due. DO NOT take a double dose to make up for
the one you missed.

UNDESIRABLE EFFECTS

Q: Are there any unwanted effects of Acepril?

A: All medicines may cause some unwanted or 'side-effects' in a few
patients. If you experience any of the following TELL YOUR DOCTOR
IMMEDIATELY:

Swelling of the hands, face, lips or tongue, difficulty in breathing,
sore throat or fever, continued vomiting or diarrhoea, severe dizziness
or fainting, severe abdominal pain, unusually fast or irregular heart
beat.

Sometimes Acepril causes dizziness, rashes, sensitivity to light,
flushing, taste impairment, inflammation of the mouth, upset stomach,
pins and needles in the hands, cough and swollen glands. If these
symptoms persist or become troublesome you should tell your doctor.

Rarely disorders of the blood, kidney or liver can occur. Your doctor
may need to give you blood tests to monitor your condition.

Tell your doctor or pharmacist if you notice any other troublesome
side-effects.

LOOKING AFTER YOUR MEDICINE

You will see an "EXPIRY DATE" on the outer packaging of Acepril. Do not
use the tablets after this date.

Keep all your medicines where children cannot reach them, preferably in
a locked cupboard or medicine cabinet. Keep Acepril tablets at room
temperature. They should not get too hot or damp; so do not leave your
tablets near a radiator, on a window sill or in the bathroom.

If your doctor decides to stop the tablets, ask your pharmacist to tell
you what to do with any you have left.

DATE OF LAST REVISION: April 1994
