Unknown

AEROCROM^(®) Syncroner^(®)

Aerocrom Syncroner is a metered dose pressurised aerosol with a spacer
device delivering 200 inhalations each containing 1 mg sodium
cromoglycate and salbutamol sulphate 120.5 microgrammes (equivalent to
100 microgrammes salbutamol base) The inactive ingredients are: sorbitan
trioleate and propellants 12 and 114.

Manufactured by Fisons plc, Holmes Chapel, Cheshire, CW4 8BE for the
Product Licence holder: Fisons plc Pharmaceutical Division, Coleorton
Hall, Leicestershire, LE67 8GP.

Please read this carefully before you start to use Aerocrom Syncroner If
you have any questions or are not sure about anything ask your doctor or
pharmacist.

Things to remember about your medicine

· Aerocrom Syncroner is designed to help improve the way your medicine
gets into your lungs. Aerocrom Syncroner contains a reliever
(salbutamol) and a preventer (sodium cromoglycate) to treat your asthma
and its symptoms. Aerocrom Syncroner is intended for regular treatment
and not for use if you get a bad asthma attack.

Before taking your medicine

Tell your doctor if:

- you have suffered from heart conditions or high blood pressure
(hypertension) or have an overactive thyroid.

- you know that you are allergic to this type of medicine or any of the
ingredients. The ingredients are listed at the start of this leaflet

you are pregnant, or think you may become pregnant, or are breast
feeding a baby.

- you are taking other anti-asthma medicines, diuretics (water tablets),
steroids and beta blockers (e.g propranolol)

· If you get a sudden very bad attack of asthma contact your doctor
straight away

· This medicine is not for use in children unless otherwise directed by
your doctor.

When to take your medicine

· Use your Aerocrom Syncroner as your doctor has told you to. Usually
this will be 4 times a day. Mealtimes may help you to remember

· Your doctor may suggest you take one of your normal doses of Aerocrom
Syncroner before any activity which may set off an attack, for example
exercise. Your doctor may also advise you to take an extra 2 puffs if
you find you become wheezy or breathless sometimes. However, if you
become wheezy or breathless regularly or have a bad asthma attack tell
your doctor.

· If you have not used Aerocrom Syncroner before you may find you need
to take it for several days before you start to get better You may need
to take it for several weeks for it to have its best effect. To prevent
attacks, you need to take it every day, even when you feel well.

· Don t stop your treatment or reduce the dosage without telling your
doctor.

· If you forget to take a dose, take one puff as soon as you remember.
Then go on as before.

· Don t take more puffs of Aerocrom Syncroner than your doctor has told
you to. If you do accidentally take too much you may feel shaky and your
heart may beat a little faster than normal These effects should wear off
within a few hours but you should tell your doctor as soon as possible
if these effects last longer.

· Full instructions on how to use Aerocrom Syncroner are given overleaf.

· After taking your medicine

Some people find their throat feels dry after using Aerocrom Syncroner.
Drinking a small glass of water afterwards may be helpful.

· As with all other inhaled medicines, this medicine may cause coughing
or wheezing, but this is usually mild and does not last long.

· In extremely rare cases this medicine may make people who are
sensitive or allergic to it have sudden wheeziness, coughing or
shortness of breath, swelling

of eyelids, face or lips, skin lumps or hives. If you get any of these
severe effects stop taking your inhaler and contact your doctor straight
away.

· If your asthma seems to be getting worse or your inhaler does not seem
to be as effective tell your doctor.

· Other side effects which are uncommon but which you may notice include
mild tremor, headache, dizziness, transient muscle cramps and rash.
These effects are usually seen when you first start treatment If you
notice these effects, tell your doctor.

· Tell your doctor or pharmacist if you notice any other unwanted
effects.

Looking after your Aerocrom Syncroner

· Keep your medicine out of the reach of children.

· Your Aerocrom Syncroner should be stored in a cool dry place below
25°C but not in the fridge or bathroom It is important to do this since
inhalers may not work as well if they are cold.

· Protect it from heat, frost and sunlight.

· Do not use this medicine after the expiry date. This is marked on the
metal canister label and carton after the letters ‘EXP’. Return any
unused inhalers to your pharmacist .

· Warning: The metal canister is pressurised Do not puncture or burn it
even when empty.

REMEMBER: This medicine is for you only. Only a doctor can prescribe it
for you. Never give it to someone else.

+---+-----------------------------------------------------------------+
|   | AEROCROM, SYNCRONER and FISONS are Registered Trade Marks of    |
|   | Fisons plc.                                                     |
|   |                                                                 |
|   | Date of Preparation: June 1994.                                 |
|   |                                                                 |
|   | © Fisons plc 1995                                               |
|   |                                                                 |
|   | REG\AER\509\94                                                  |
+---+-----------------------------------------------------------------+

continued

How to take

Aerocrom Syncroner

  ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- --
  1 Remove the mouthpiece cover                                                                                                                                                         
  2 Hold the Syncroner as shown and pull it open. Make sure the horizontal arm locks (clicks) into position. Check that the mouthpiece is clean.                                        
  3 Shake the Syncroner well (at least 5 times). If the Syncroner has not been used for more than 2 days or if you are using it for the first time release one puff into the air.       
  4 Holding the Syncroner well away from your mouth, breathe out as far as is comfortable. To avoid condensation and blockage of the spray, DO NOT breathe out through the mouthpiece   
                                                                                                                                                                                        
  ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- --

5 Holding the Syncroner as shown, place it in your mouth and close your
lips around it.

6 Start to breathe in SLOWLY and deeply through your mouth. then
immediately press the metal canister down firmly whist continuing to
breathe in.

7 Remove the Syncroner from your mouth and hold your breath for about 10
seconds, or as long as is comfortable, then breathe out slowly.

8 If you are to take a second puff, wait for about 1 minute before
repeating steps 3 to 7 once more.

9 After use, always close the Syncroner and replace the mouthpiece cover
to keep out dust and fluff

How to check your inhalation

technique

  --
  --

Correct inhalation technique

  --
  --

Incorrect inhalation technique

This Syncroner will help you check your inhalation technique. If you are
not using the Syncroner correctly, a fine mist will escape as in the
photograph. You may check your technique by taking your medicine in
front of a mirror or by asking a friend or relative to help you.

Escaping mist may be from either

1) pressing the metal canister down before you have started to breathe
in, or

2) pressing the metal canister down after you have finished breathing
in, or

3) not breathing deeply enough.

If mist has escaped when you take your first puff think carefully about
your breathing while you repeat steps 4 to 7 of the instructions

Cleaning instructions

+-----------------------------------------------------------------+---+
| It is very important to keep the plastic body of the Syncroner  |   |
| clean to prevent the build-up of spare powder. It should be     |   |
| cleaned at least twice a week. No harm will come from washing   |   |
| the                                                             |   |
|                                                                 |   |
| plastic body every day                                          |   |
|                                                                 |   |
| 1. Remove the metal canister and mouthpiece cover and put them  |   |
| in a safe place.                                                |   |
+-----------------------------------------------------------------+---+
|                                                                 |   |
+-----------------------------------------------------------------+---+

2 Wash the plastic body of the Syncroner thoroughly in hand hot water
from both ends.

3 Shake off excess water and leave to dry in a clean warm place for a
few hours. before replacing the metal canister and mouthpiece cover.

+---+----------------------------------------------------------+
|   | Do not put the metal canister into water                 |
|   |                                                          |
|   | Do not remove the plastic cover from the metal canister. |
+---+----------------------------------------------------------+
