Unknown

  -- -------------------------------------------------------------
     Patient Information Leaflet on Amoxil Paediatric Suspension
  -- -------------------------------------------------------------

Please read this leaflet before you start to take your medicine.

It is essential to follow your doctor’s advice. If there is anything you
do not understand, please ask your doctor or pharmacist (chemist).

Keep this leaflet until your baby has finished all the prescribed course
of Amoxil. You may want to read it again.

The name of your baby’s medicine is

AMOXIL

What is Amoxil?

It is one of a group of antibiotic medicines called penicillins. The
active ingredient in Amoxil is amoxycillin.

What does Amoxil do?

It is used to treat a range of bacterial infections.

IMPORTANT THINGS TO KNOW ABOUT ‘AMOXIL’

1. This medicine is unsuitable for babies who are allergic to
penicillin. (You will find more information about this later in the
leaflet.)

2. Give Amoxil to your baby as directed by your doctor. Read the
dispensing label .

3. Keep giving your baby Amoxil until the prescribed course is finished.
Do not stop just because your baby seems better.

4. Like all medicines, Amoxil can sometimes cause unwanted effects. (You
will find more information about this later in the leaflet.)

5. ALWAYS KEEP MEDICINES OUT OF THE REACH OF CHILDREN.

Now turn over for details on how to give this medicine to your baby.

BEFORE GIVING YOUR BABY THIS MEDICINE

Is my baby allergic to penicillin?

If you think your baby may be allergic to penicillin, check with your
doctor before giving this medicine.

GIVING YOUR BABY THIS MEDICINE

How much should I give my baby and how often?

Follow your doctor's directions about how and when to give your baby
Amoxil. Please read the dispensing label carefully. Your pharmacist or
doctor can help if you are not sure.

Space the doses as evenly as possible through the day. For example, if
you have been told to give your baby Amoxil 3 times a day:

  ----------- ----------- ------------
  Dose 1      Dose 2      Dose 3
                          
  about 7am   about 3pm   about 11pm
  ----------- ----------- ------------

You may give Amoxil to your baby before, with or after food, unless the
label advises a specific time. It is not normally necessary to arrange
to give your baby a dose in the middle of the night – unless your doctor
has told you to do so.

How long should I carry on giving it to my baby?

Keep giving your baby ‘Amoxil’ until the prescribed course is finished.
Do not stop just because your baby seems better. If you stop too soon,
the infection may start up again. If your baby still seems unwell at the
end of the prescribed course of treatment, tell your doctor.

What should I do if I forget to give my baby a dose?

If you forget to give your baby a dose at the right time, take it as
soon as you remember. Then carry on as before, but do not take two doses
within an hour or so of each other.

How should I gave this medicine to my baby?

NB Always give the medicine into the child’s mouth.

+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+
| 1. Shake the bottle              |                                  |
+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+
| 2. (a) If the dropper is not in  | (b) If the dropper is in the     |
| the bottle :–                    | bottle:–                         |
|                                  |                                  |
| First remove cap from bottle and | Unscrew cap to remove dropper    |
| discard cap. Then remove dropper | from bottle.                     |
| from wrapping.                   |                                  |
|                                  | Follow steps 3, 4, 5, 6, 7 and   |
| Follow steps 3, 4, 5, 6, 7 and   | 8.                               |
| 8.                               |                                  |
+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+
|                                  |                                  |
+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+
| 3. Squeeze the rubber bulb       | 7. Put the medicine onto the     |
| tightly                          | baby’s tongue by squeezing the   |
|                                  | bulb until all the medicine in   |
| 4. Still squeezing the bulb,     | the dropper has been pushed out. |
| push the dropper into the        | Do not put it on the front of    |
| medicine in the bottle.          | the tongue or it might dribble   |
|                                  | out of the mouth.                |
| 5. Stop squeezing the bulb, the  |                                  |
| dropper will fill above the red  | 8. Wash out the dropper with     |
| line marked on it.               | water. Shake to remove any drops |
|                                  | of water. Replace the dropper in |
| 6. Take out the dropper. Squeeze | the bottle and screw it on       |
| the bulb gently until the        | tightly.                         |
| medicine is exactly in line with |                                  |
| red dose mark.                   |                                  |
+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+

AFTER GIVING YOUR BABY THIS MEDICINE

What unwanted effects might it have?

A few people may find that Amoxil gives their baby diarrhoea or
indigestion (colic). If this happens, the symptoms are usually mild. If
this persists or if the baby is suffering badly, tell your doctor.

Tell your doctor if your baby develops a rash, or itching, or any other
unusual problems, while you are giving this medicine.

If your doctor decides to stop the treatment, return any left-over
medicine to the pharmacist.

What if I have given my baby too much?

If a large amount has been taken, give your baby plenty of water to
drink and consult your doctor or local hospital casualty department at
once.

STORING THIS MEDICINE

How should I store Amoxil paediatric suspension?

Keep your baby's Amoxil paediatric suspension in a cool place. Store all
medicines out of the reach of children - preferably in a locked cupboard
or medicine cabinet.

Remember this medicine has been prescribed just for your baby. Never
offer this medicine to other people. It may not be suitable for them
even if their symptoms seem the same as your baby's.

MORE INFORMATION

Each 1.25 ml of Amoxil paediatric suspension contains amoxycillin
trihydrate, equivalent to 125 mg of amoxycillin.

Non-proprietary name: Amoxycillin Paediatric Oral Suspension.

Amoxil paediatric suspension also contains inactive ingredients to make
the medicine acceptable. Amongst these are sodium benzoate and sucrose.

Amoxil paediatric suspension does not contain tartrazine or any other
azo dyes.

Manufacturer and Product Licence Holder:

Beecham Group plc trading as Bencard, Great West Road, Brentford, TW8
9BD, England.

How can I obtain more information about Amoxil?

In this short leaflet, we can only give you the most important patient
information about Amoxil. If you would like to know more, ask your
doctor or pharmacist.

Amoxil and the Bencard logo are trade marks.

Leaflet prepared in August 1989.
