Unknown

Patient Information Leaflet

on 'Ampiclox' Neonatal suspension

Please read this leaflet before giving this medicine to your baby.

It is essential to follow your doctor's advice. If there is anything you
do not understand, please ask your doctor or pharmacist (chemist).

Keep this leaflet until the prescribed course of 'Ampiclox' Neonatal is
finished. You may want to read it again.

YOUR BABY'S MEDICINE IS 'AMPICLOX' NEONATAL

What is 'Ampiclox' Neonatal?

'Ampiclox' is the maker's name for one of a group of antibiotic
medicines called penicillins. The active ingredients in 'Ampiclox'
Neonatal are ampicillin and cloxacillin.

What does 'Ampiclox' Neonatal do?

It is used to treat a range of bacterial infections.

IMPORTANT THINGS TO KNOW ABOUT 'AMPICLOX' NEONATAL

1. This medicine is unsuitable for babies who are allergic to
penicillin. (You will find more information about this later in the
leaflet).

2. Give 'Ampiclox' Neonatal to your baby as directed by your doctor.
Keep the medicine away from eyes. Read the dispensing label.

3. It is important to keep giving your baby 'Ampiclox' Neonatal for the
length of time your doctor has advised. Do not stop just because your
baby seems better.

4. Like all medicines, 'Ampiclox' Neonatal can sometimes cause unwanted
effects. (You will find more about this later in the leaflet).

5. Always keep medicines out of reach of children.

NOW TURN TO THE NEXT PAGE FOR DETAILS ON HOW TO GIVE THIS MEDICINE TO
YOUR BABY.

BEFORE GIVING YOUR BABY THIS MEDICINE

Is my baby allergic to penicillin?

If you think your baby may be allergic to penicillin, or if you are the
baby's parent and you think that you are allergic to penicillin, check
with your doctor before giving this medicine.

GIVING YOUR BABY THIS MEDICINE

How much should I give my baby and how often?

Follow your doctor's advice about how and when to give your baby

+-----------------------------------------------------------------+---+
| 'Ampiclox' Neonatal. Please read the dispensing                 |   |
|                                                                 |   |
| label carefully. Your pharmacist or doctor can help             |   |
|                                                                 |   |
| if you are not sure.                                            |   |
|                                                                 |   |
| How should I give this medicine to my baby?                     |   |
|                                                                 |   |
| First, shake the bottle. Then:                                  |   |
|                                                                 |   |
| 1. (a) If the dropper is not in the bottle:                     |   |
|                                                                 |   |
| First remove the cap from the bottle. This cap can be thrown    |   |
| away. Then remove the dropper from its wrapping and squeeze the |   |
| rubber bulb to expel air (Diagram 1). Follow steps 2, 3, 4, 5   |   |
| and 6 below.                                                    |   |
|                                                                 |   |
| (b) If the dropper is in the bottle:                            |   |
|                                                                 |   |
| Unscrew the dropper from the bottle and squeeze the rubber bulb |   |
| to expel air (Diagram 1). Follow steps 2, 3, 4, 5 and 6 below.  |   |
|                                                                 |   |
| 2. Still squeezing the bulb, push the dropper into the medicine |   |
| in the bottle (Diagram 2).                                      |   |
|                                                                 |   |
| 3. Stop squeezing the bulb. The dropper will fill above the     |   |
| line marked on it (Diagram 3).                                  |   |
|                                                                 |   |
| 4. Take out the dropper. Squeeze the bulb gently until the      |   |
| medicine is exactly in line with the dose mark (Diagram 4).     |   |
|                                                                 |   |
| 5. Put the medicine on to the baby's tongue by squeezing the    |   |
| bulb until all the medicine in the dropper has been pushed out  |   |
| (Diagram S). Do not put it on the front of the tongue or it     |   |
| might dribble out of the mouth.                                 |   |
|                                                                 |   |
| 6. Wash out the dropper with water. Shake to remove any drops   |   |
| of water. Replace it in the bottle and screw it on tightly.     |   |
+-----------------------------------------------------------------+---+

What should I do if I forget to give my baby a dose?

If you forget to give your baby a dose at the right time, give it as
soon as you remember. Then carry on as before but do not give two doses
within an hour or so of each other.

How long should I carry on giving 'Ampiclox' Neonatal to my baby?

Follow your doctor's directions. Do not stop just because your baby
seems better. If you stop too soon, the infection may start up again. If
your baby still seems to be unwell at the end of the prescribed course
of treatment, tell your doctor.

AFTER GIVING YOUR BABY THIS MEDICINE

What unwanted effects might it have?

Experience with 'Ampiclox' over 20 years of use suggests that a few
people may find that 'Ampiclox' Neonatal makes their baby vomit (be
sick) or get diarrhoea. If this happens, the symptoms are usually mild.
If this persists or if the baby is suffering badly, tell your doctor.

Advise your doctor if your baby starts to itch or develop a rash or any
other unusual problems while you are giving him/her this medicine.

If your doctor decides to stop the treatment, return any left-over
medicine to the pharmacist.

What if I have given my baby too much?

If a large amount has been taken, contact your doctor or the local
hospital casualty department at once.

STORING THIS MEDICINE

How should I store 'Ampiclox' Neonatal?

Keep your baby's 'Ampiclox' Neonatal suspension in a cool place,
preferably a refrigerator and use within five days. Do not freeze. Store
all medicines out of the reach of children.

Remember this medicine has been prescribed just for your baby. Do not
give this medicine to anyone else – it may not be suitable for them even
if their symptoms seem the same as your baby's.

MORE INFORMATION ABOUT 'AMPICLOX’ NEONATAL SUSPENSION

What does 'Ampiclox' Neonatal contain?

Each 0.6 ml of 'Ampiclox' Neonatal suspension contains 60 mg ampicillin
as ampicillin trihydrate and 30 mg cloxacillin as cloxacillin sodium.

'Ampiclox' Neonatal suspension also contains active ingredients to make
the medicine acceptable. Amongst these is sodium benzoate.

'Ampiclox' Neonatal suspension is sugar-free and free from artificial
colourings.

Product Licence Holder and Manufacturer: Beecham Group plc, Brentford,
trading as Beecham Research, Welwyn Garden City, Hertfordshire AL7 1EY.

How can I obtain more information about 'Ampiclox' Neonatal?

In this short leaflet, we can only give you the most important patient
information about 'Ampiclox' Neonatal. If you would like to know more,
ask your doctor or pharmacist.

Produced in accordance with guidelines issued by the Association of the
British Pharmaceutical Industry.
