Unknown

Atrovent UDVs

ipratropium bromide

Plastic Unit Dose Vials (UDVs) containing an isotonic, preservative-free
solution of ipratropium bromide for administration via a nebuliser.

Atrovent Nebuliser Solution is available as:

2ml UDVs (containing 500 mcg ipratropium bromide)

1ml UDVs (containing 250 mcg ipratropium bromide)

Your doctor will decide which is appropriate for you.

Information for patients

The solution inside the plastic vials contains a medicine called
ipratropium bromide. It is a bronchodilator, which helps to open up the
air passages in your lungs so that you can breathe more easily.

Please keep the vials safely away from heat or light (for example in a
cupboard) and out of the sight and reach of children.

Before using your Atrovent nebuliser solution, please take some time to
read the following guidelines and precautions but remember, if you have
any questions about your treatment. please ask your doctor or
pharmacist.

How to use your nebuliser solution

Each plastic vial contains Atrovent nebuliser solution which should only
be used in a nebuliser approved by your doctor. Do not let anyone else
use your nebuliser nor take your medicine, they are both for your use
only.

How much to use

Your doctor will explain exactly how much solution to use. If you feel
at any time that your medicine is not working as well as it should, call
your doctor and explain the situation. Never take more than has been
prescribed for you.

How to use

1. Get your nebuliser ready by following the manufacturer's instructions
and the advice of your doctor.

  -- ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
     2. Carefully separate a new vial from the strip. NEVER use one that has been opened already.
     3. Open the vial by simply twisting off the top, always taking care to hold it in an upright position.
     4. Unless otherwise instructed by your doctor, squeeze all the contents of the plastic vial into the nebuliser chamber. If dilution is necessary this should be carried out using ONLY sterile sodium chloride 0.9% solution and as instructed by your doctor.
  -- ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

5. Assemble the nebuliser and use it as directed by your doctor.

6. After nebulisation follow the manufacturer's instructions about
cleaning your nebuliser.

Take care

Some people are allergic to particular medicines. Atrovent UDVs should
not be used by anyone who is allergic to atropine or ipratropium. If in
doubt, ask your doctor or pharmacist.

Tell your doctor about any illnesses you have. In particular, if you
suffer from glaucoma (excessive pressure inside your eyes) or if you are
a man who has problems with your prostate gland.

Don't let the mist from the nebuliser go into your eyes, as it may cause
harm. In particular if you suffer from glaucoma tell your doctor before
using the nebuliser.

Also, if you are already using another nebuliser solution tell your
doctor as sometimes when two solutions are used together they can affect
your eyes.

Occasionally ipratropium may cause dry mouth, constipation or some
difficulty in urinating. If such symptoms occur consult your doctor or
pharmacist.

If you notice a worsening of your shortness of breath after taking your
nebuliser treatment, tell your doctor as soon as possible.

If you are a woman who is, or who may become pregnant, also tell your
doctor.

There are thousands of nebulisers in use across the country every day.
When used properly they provide many people with effective relief from
their breathing difficulties. To help get the most from your treatment
always follow your doctor's instructions.

Remember:

If in doubt about your treatment, please ask your doctor or pharmacist
for advice.

+---+------------+
|   | Boehringer |
|   |            |
|   | Ingelheim  |
+---+------------+

Product Licence and Authorisation Holder:

Boehringer Ingelheim Limited

Ellesfield Avenue, Bracknell, Berkshire, RG12 8YS
