I. T. Research Institute

  --
  --

‘Augmentin’ 125/31 SF suspension

PLEASE READ THIS LEAFLET BEFORE GIVING YOUR MEDICINE

Always follow your doctor's advice. If there is anything you do not
understand, or if you have any questions, please ask your doctor or
pharmacist (chemist).

Information for patients and carers of children

Your child’s ‘Augmentin’ comes in a bottle containing 100 ml of an
off-white liquid mixture, called a suspension

Contents

Each 'Augmentin' 125/31 SF suspension contains 125 mg amoxycillin and
31.25 mg clavulanic acid in every 5 ml. Both of these ingredients are
antibiotics and together they are known as co-amoxiclav. The other
ingredients in the tablets are xanthan gum (E415), hydroxypropyl
methylcellulose (E464), aspartame, silica (E551), colloidal silica,
succinic acid, and raspberry, orange and golden syrup flavours.

Product licence holder:

Beecham Group plc (trading as Beecham Research),

Mundells, Welwyn Garden City, Hertfordshire AL7 1EY

Manufacturer: Beecham Pharmaceuticals, Worthing, West Sussex.

What is ‘Augmentin’?

  -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- --
  'Augmentin' is an antibiotic for treating infections It belongs to a group of antibiotics called "penicillins". 'Augmentin' works by killing the bacteria that can cause infections.   
  -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- --

Why has your doctor prescribed 'Augmentin' for your child?

‘Augmentin’ can treat a wide range of bacterial infections including
those of the chest (bronchitis or pneumonia), tonsils (tonsillitis).
sinuses (sinusitis). ears, skin, the bladder or the urethra (the tube
which carries urine from the bladder) and the kidneys.

Before taking your medicine

Let your doctor know if any of the following apply:

¾ Your child has ever had a skin rash or swelling of the face or neck
when taking an antibiotic.

¾ You know your child is allergic to penicillin (or any other
antibiotic).

¾ Your child has ever had a serious complaint - such as liver problems -
when taking an antibiotic.

¾ Your child is being treated for kidney or liver problems.

¾ Your child is being treated with any medicine (such as warfarin) to
prevent blood clots

¾ Your child has glandular fever

¾ Your child was born with a condition called “phenylketonuria”.

If so, your doctor may decide to give your child a different medicine or
change the dose of ‘Augmentin’.

IF YOU ARE TAKING ‘AUGMENTIN’, let your doctor know if you are pregnant
(or think you could be) or if you are breast-feeding..

How to give 'Augmentin' to your child

+-----------------------------------------------------------------+---+
| 'Augmentin' 125/31 SF suspension is for children under six. The |   |
| usual dose is one spoonful (5 ml) of medicine three times a day |   |
| for children between the ages of one and six years. For         |   |
| children under one, the dose is worked out using the child's    |   |
| weight. For example, if your child weighed 7.5 kg, they would   |   |
| need 2 ml of the medicine three times a day. Your doctor will   |   |
| tell you how much medicine your child should take each day. The |   |
| doctor's instructions are also on the label of the bottle, so   |   |
| read it carefully. If you have any questions about 'Augmentin', |   |
| talk to your doctor or pharmacist.                              |   |
+-----------------------------------------------------------------+---+
| For the best results, give your child 'Augmentin' just before   |   |
| meals.                                                          |   |
|                                                                 |   |
| Try to give this medicine as part of the daily routine – for    |   |
| example at meal times.                                          |   |
+-----------------------------------------------------------------+---+
| But remember, whenever you give your child the medicine, space  |   |
| the doses as evenly as possible through the day.                |   |
+-----------------------------------------------------------------+---+
| Try not to give your child more than one dose every four hours  |   |
| and never give two doses within one hour or so.                 |   |
|                                                                 |   |
| Keep giving your child the medicine until it is finished, even  |   |
| if he or she seems to be better.                                |   |
+-----------------------------------------------------------------+---+
| Your child needs every dose to help fight off the infection. If |   |
| you stop giving your child this medicine before the end of the  |   |
| course, some bacteria may survive and cause the infection to    |   |
| come back.                                                      |   |
+-----------------------------------------------------------------+---+

It's now much easier to give medicines to children thanks to a new
syringe designed for infants. It will help you give your child the right
dose. Or the chemist may give you a spoon. If the chemist has given you
a syringe, follow these simple rules.

1 Shake the bottle well before removing the cap. Then put the rubber
bung in the bottle.

2 Squeeze the syringe tip into the bung. Use the syringe to measure out
the right dose.

3 Put the syringe tip into your baby's mouth and drip the medicine in
gently. Don't hurry your child, allow time for him or her to swallow the
medicine slowly.

4 After each dose, sterilise the syringe as you would do for the baby's
bottle. When you have finished, put the bottle and syringe somewhere
safe, out of the reach of children

If your child is still unwell after taking all the medicine, go and see
your doctor.

Never give more than the recommended dose each day.

What if I forget to give a dose?

If you forget to give a dose, don’t worry – just give it as soon as you
remember. But don’t give the next dose too soon. Always try to keep the
doses evenly spaced. Try to wait about four hours before giving the next
dose. Do not give two doses within one hour or so.

What if my child has taken too much medicine?

If your child has taken too much ‘Augmentin’, contact your doctor or
local hospital casualty department at once. Show the doctor the sachets.

Information on possible side effects

The medicine can sometimes give your child an upset stomach or
diarrhoea. If this happens, the symptoms are usually mild and you may
prevent them by giving your child each dose just before meals.

Some people get a rash when they take antibiotics. If your child starts
to itch or get a rash, stop giving 'Augmentin' and tell your doctor at
once. Other side effects include a swollen face and breathing problems.
But these are extremely rare. Tell your doctor straight away if you
notice these symptoms.

Some children may get to thrush (a yeast infection of the mouth, vagina,
or skin folds) during treatment or soon after. You can get treatment for
thrush from your doctor or pharmacist.

Remind your doctor if your child is having blood tests, because
‘Augmentin’ sometimes causes short-term changes in blood-cell counts.

As with most infections, 'Augmentin' can sometimes cause rare and
serious reactions. See your doctor straight away if:

· your child gets severe diarrhoea with bleeding;

· you notice your child’s urine becoming darker or faeces (otherwise
known as poo) becoming paler; or

· you notice your child’s skin or the whites of your child’s eyes
turning yellow.

Some of these reactions can be delayed for several weeks after finishing
the treatment.

If your child gets any other problems while taking this medicine tell
your doctor or pharmacist.

Storing 'Augmentin'

Don't use this medicine if the expiry date printed on the pack has
passed.

Store the medicine in a refrigerator (but do not freeze it). Keep all
medicines well out of the reach of children.

If your doctor asks you to stop giving this medicine, or if for any
other reason there is some medicine left over, please return it to the
pharmacist.

Remember, this medicine is just for your child. Do not give it to anyone
else. It may not be suitable for them, even if their symptoms seem to be
the same as your child’s.

Put this leaflet somewhere safe until your child has finished taking all
the medicine.

  --
  --

Leaflet prepared in April 1995

1995 SmithKline Beecham Pharmaceuticals

'Augmentin' is a trade mark of SmithKline Beecham
