Unknown

Axsain^(Â®)

(Capsaicin 0.075%)

Topical Analgesic Cream

For External Use Only

EURODERMA LIMITED

ABOUT AXSAIN

Axsain cream contains capsaicin (0.075%), a naturally occurring
substance found in plants of the Solanaceae family. Research has shown
that Axsain may work by reducing levels of a chemical (substance P),
which is involved in transmitting pain impulses to the brain. Axsain
therefore has a topical analgesic effect.

USES OF AXSAIN

Axsain can be helpful in relieving neuralgia or the pain arising from
nerves near to the surface of the skin. This pain often follows Herpes
Zoster (shingles), after the sores have healed.

WARNINGS

AXSAIN IS FOR EXTERNAL USE ONLY AND SHOULD NOT COME INTO CONTACT WITH
THE EYES OR BROKEN OR DAMAGED SKIN.

If it does, wash it off with plenty of soap and water. Do not put tight
bandages over Axsain cream. If your condition worsens or symptoms
persist for more than 14 days, or clear-up and then recur within a few
days, stop using Axsain and consult your doctor.

Keep this and all drugs away from children.

Preservative: Benzyl alcohol 1% w/w.

For expiry date see end of carton or tube.

HOW TO USE AXSAIN

Apply the cream to the affected area 3 to 4 times daily. A warm or
burning sensation may be felt for a time after application. This
sensation tends to occur more often when the cream is applied less than
3 to 4 times daily. After applying Axsain with your fingers, wash your
hands thoroughly.

Axsain is not recommended for use in children.

DIRECTIONS FOR USE

Using fingers rub in Axsain to the affected skin areas.

Warning: Do not use on broken or damaged skin and do not bandage
tightly.

2. Apply Axsain 3 to 4 times daily to give an analgesic effect. You may
experience a warm or burning sensation particularly during the first few
days of application, which can be worsened by bathing in warm water.

3. Wash hands after application. Avoid contact with eyes.

4. Maximum response is usually achieved within 14 to 28 days and
application 3 to 4 times daily is advised to sustain pain-relief. We
suggest that you use the diary overleaf to help you record and check
your applications.

PL No: 10670/0003

Manufactured for Euroderma Ltd. by

Dermatological Products of Texas, Inc.

San Antonio, Texas 78215
