Unknown

Bactroban Nasal Ointment

Patient Information Leaflet on 'Bactroban' Nasal Ointment

Please read this leaflet before you start to use your medicine.

It is essential to follow your doctor's advice. If there is anything you
do not understand, please ask your doctor or pharmacist (chemist).

Keep this leaflet until you have finished your prescribed course of
'Bactroban’ Nasal Ointment. You may want to read it again.

If you are helping someone else to use this medicine, please read this
leaflet before you apply the first dose.

THE NAME OF YOUR MEDICINE IS 'BACTROBAN' NASAL OINTMENT

What is 'Bactroban' Nasal Ointment?

'Bactroban' Nasal Ointment contains an antibiotic which acts against
bacteria in the nose. It contains an active ingredient called calcium
mupirocin.

What does 'Bactroban' Nasal Ointment do?

'Bactroban' Nasal Ointment acts against a certain type of bacteria
(Staphylococcus aureus) in the nose. These bacteria can be spread on the
hands, or when breathing or sneezing and can cause problems with skin or
wound infections to yourself or other people.

IMPORTANT THINGS TO KNOW ABOUT 'BACTROBAN' NASAL OINTMENT

1. This ointment should be used only in the nose. The way to apply the
ointment is shown at the foot of this page and on the next page of this
leaflet.

Take care to avoid the eyes.

2. Before using ANY medicines you should tell your doctor if you are
pregnant (or think you may be), or if you are breast feeding.

3. Use 'Bactroban' Nasal Ointment as directed by your doctor. Read the
dispensing label.

4. Like all medicines, 'Bactroban' Nasal Ointment can sometimes cause
unwanted effects. (You will find more information about this later in
this leaflet.)

5. ALWAYS KEEP MEDICINES OUT OF THE REACH OF CHILDREN

For more information on 'Bactroban' Nasal Ointment, please read the rest
of this leaflet.

BEFORE TAKING YOUR MEDICINE

What should I do if I think I am pregnant (or I am breast feeding)?

Do not use 'Bactroban' Nasal Ointment without consulting your doctor.
You may be given another medicine instead.

Am I allergic to 'Bactroban' Nasal Ointment?

Do you think you have had a previous reaction to 'Bactroban'
(mupirocin), white soft paraffin or Softisan 649 (a glycerin ester)? If
so, do not use this medicine; tell your doctor. You may need to be given
another medicine instead.

USING YOUR MEDICINE

How should I apply 'Bactroban' Nasal Ointment?

  ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- -- -- ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  1. Unscrew the cap and squeeze a small amount of ointment, about the size of a match-head, on to your little finger.         2. Apply ointment to the inside of one nostril.
  2. Repeat for the other nostril                                                                                              2. Close your nostrils by pressing the sides of the nose together for a moment. This will spread the ointment inside each nostril.
  ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- -- -- ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

How do I apply 'Bactroban' Nasal Ointment to another person?

A cotton bud may be used instead of the little finger when applying
'Bactroban' Nasal Ointment to another person, such as an infant or a
patient who is very ill.

Special care should be taken with these patients.

How much should I use and how often?

Follow your doctor's directions about how and when to use the ointment.
Please read the dispensing label carefully.

How long should I carry on using 'Bactroban' Nasal Ointment?

Follow your doctor's directions on how long to apply the ointment.

What should I do if I forget to apply the ointment at the right time?

If you forget to apply ointment at the right time, apply it as soon as
you remember. Then carry on as before, but do not apply two doses within
an hour or so of each other.

AFTER TAKING YOUR MEDICINE

What unwanted effects might I have?

A few people may find that there is a stinging feeling in the nose after
applying 'Bactroban' Nasal Ointment. This effect will not last long.

If you suffer badly, or have any other unusual problems whilst you are
using this medicine, contact your doctor.

STORING YOUR MEDICINE

How should I store 'Bactroban' Nasal Ointment?

Keep the medicine at room temperature (below 25°C).

KEEP ALL MEDICINE OUT OF THE REACH OF CHILDREN – preferably in a locked
cupboard or medicine cabinet

What should I do with any medicine which is left at the end of
treatment?

Return any left-over medicine to the pharmacist. Do not try and keep it
for further use.

Remember this medicine has been prescribed just for you. Never offer
your medicine to other people. It may not be suitable for them, even if
their symptoms seem the same as yours.

MORE INFORMATION

What does 'Bactroban' Nasal Ointment contain?

'Bactroban' Nasal Ointment contains 2% of mupirocin, as calcium
mupirocin, in each 3 g tube. 'Bactroban' Nasal Ointment has a white soft
paraffin base and contains a glycerin ester, Softisan 649.

Manufacturer and Product Licence Holder: Beecham Group plc, Brentford,
trading as Beecham Research, Welwyn Garden City, Hertfordshire AL7 1EY,
England.

Product Authorisation Holder: SmithKline Beecham Pharmaceuticals Ltd,
trading as Beecham Research, Lower Mount Street, Dublin, Ireland.

How can I obtain more information about ‘Bactroban’ Nasal Ointment?

In this short leaflet, we can give you only the most important
information about 'Bactroban’

Nasal Ointment. If you would like to know more, ask your doctor or
pharmacist

BEECHAM RESEARCH

‘Bactroban’ is a trade mark

Leaflet prepared in August 1991

© 1991 Beecham Research
